I'm back in the project we created before, it's actually in the same state as before, I replaced my template
to only display Hello World and i export an empty object.
Remember, this will get compiled to a javascript template plus the vuejs code where we don't
have any here since the object is empty but there could be some code and then we're rendering this here
with the render method which basically is a vuejs method allowing us to override the template we
select here with the el selector and then place our compiled template there.
So just an alternative to template to mention this again but a better alternative because here, we
render the compiled Javascript code
therefore we don't face the limitations template has like it having to be a string and other limitations
given by the dom for example,
so this is the best way to write your templates as you get the maximum flexibility and I'll come back
to one specific piece of flexibility in the next videos.
Note that right now I'm not using a component,
this is a normal object and I'm rendering it here,
so I'm not doing anything here,
I'm not having a component here.
I now even remove this exported object and it still works because I still have the object here, the
template
I mean but I want to reintroduce the exported object. Now in this object,
I want to set up my data and this shall be a function,
let me show you what happens if it is not a function.
By the way, this is not a component but it's a separate object which we're exporting here,
right,
it's a separate object
and we're rendering this object here.
So it has the same limitations as a component has because we kind of use it as a component even though
we don't have selector for that component
but we're using it to replace our normal template here in another vue instance.
So if I set up data like this as a normal object and I set status to critical and then I print server
status
status here like that, if I now save this,
you see we don't see it here but if I open up the console, you see that the data option should be a function,
so that doesn't really work.
Instead we shall set it up as a function as we learned it
and then in here, return an object enclosing our status, if I do this, you now see the server status critical
here.
So this is generally how we work with that,
so far that's not totally new, we learned about this single file components before.
Now let's also use them to create components now,
so I'm already exporting an object here and that is fine,
this is kind of now my root vue instance which gets rendered here, it's like a component which I don't
place with a selector but instead, simply like a replacement for the instance object in here because
here, I use the render function to replace everything,
so I kind of need an alternative, a different place where I set up my root instance data methods and so
on
and this is in the app.vue
file.